DOCSP 49157 - audio-based-AI-diagnostics (#171)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/industry-solutions/audio-based-AI-diagnostics.txt

> .. _arch-center-is-audio-based-ai-diagnostocs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _arch-center-is-audio-based-ai-diagnostics:
```

====================================

> Real-time audio-based AI diagnostics

Reviewer: I know the original articles used sentence case for titles and sections, but I think we should use title case for them

Author: Done!

to be searched (and essentially compared) with the sound emitted by our
equipment during its operation in real-time.

Audio-based diagnosis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next we put our equipment through normal operation and start capturing the sound
it is making in real time. In this demonstration we capture one-second clips of
audio. Then, with the same embedding model used before, we take our audio clips
and convert them to vector embeddings in real-time. This process happens in
milliseconds, allowing us to have real-time monitoring of the audio. The
one-second audio clips now converted to vector embeddings are then sent to
MongoDB Atlas Vector Search. At this step, the Atlas Vector Search algorithm
searches for what is the most similar sound from the ones we previously recorded
in our audio preparation phase. The result is given back with a percentage of
similarity and it enables a very accurate diagnosis of the current status of the
operation of the wind turbine.

These steps are performed repeatedly every second, leveraging fast embedding of
vector data and quick searches, allowing for real-time monitoring based on
sound.

> .. figure:: /includes/images/industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnosis-Demo.svg
>    :figwidth: 1200px
>    :alt: DReal-time wind turbine diagnosis 

Reviewer: Since the original image uses a caption, maybe we should add one here as well. There's also a small typo in the alt text.

```suggestion
.. figure:: /includes/images/industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnosis-Demo.svg
   :figwidth: 1200px
   :alt: Real-time wind turbine diagnosis
   
   Real-time wind turbine diagnosis by analyzing the emitted audio,
   allowing us to diagnose its status — whether it's operating normally,
   stopped, or experiencing any issues.
```

Author: Done!

   
Real-time wind turbine diagnosis by analyzing the emitted audio, allowing us to
diagnose its status — whether it's operating normally, stopped, or experiencing
any issues.

Data model approach
-------------------

The data model for the vectorized audio collection is simple, we have our audio
preparation collection called “sounds,” which contains documents including a
status and the url of the related GIF to be displayed on the UI. Once the
reference audio for each status is vectorized, the embedding is added to the
document as an array alongside existing fields.

.. figure:: /includes/images/industry-solutions/wind-diagnosis.svg
   :figwidth: 1200px
   :alt: Screenshot of documents including a status and the url of the related GIF to be displayed on the UI.

On the reading end, the one-second audio clips we record in real-time are
vectorized and sent to MongoDB Atlas Vector Search to be compared against
embeddings from the “sounds” collection above.

Building the solution
---------------------

> **Step 1:** `MongoDB Atlas Connection

Reviewer: Maybe use a ``.. procedure::`` here?

Author: Done!

Create a file called .env in the main directory alongside the add_audio.py file
and add your atlas connection string in the following format:

MONGO_CONNECTIO_STRING="mongodb+srv://connectionstringfromatlas"

Then copy this file into the nodeUI directory.

**Step 2:** `Install Python Modules <https://github.com/mongodb-industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnostics/blob/main/README.md#2-install-python-modules>`__

Install the required python modules listed in the Github repo.

**Step 3:** `Record Audio Files <https://github.com/mongodb-industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnostics/blob/main/README.md#3-record-audio-files>`__

1. Run python3 add_audio.py
2. Select the audio input by typing the relevant number and then press enter. Record each sound in sequence.

**Step 4:** `Create a Search Index <https://github.com/mongodb-industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnostics/blob/main/README.md#4-create-a-search-index>`__

Go to MongoDB Atlas and create an Atlas Search Index in the audio database
sounds collection using the content of searchindex.json.

.. code-block:: sh

   {

>     "mappings": {

Reviewer: Can we double check the indentation here? It looks like "mappings" is only indented one space whereas the other fields use two spaces for indentation.

      "dynamic": true,
      "fields": {
        "emb": {
          "dimensions": 2048,
          "similarity": "cosine",
          "type": "knnVector"
        }
      }
    }
  }

**Step 5:** `Query the Database <https://github.com/mongodb-industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnostics/blob/main/README.md#5-query-the-database>`__

Run python3 live_query.py and place your microphone next to the fan.

**Step 6:** `Run the Frontend <https://github.com/mongodb-industry-solutions/Wind-Turbine-Diagnostics/blob/main/README.md#6-run-the-frontend>`__

1. Switch to a new console and cd to the 'nodeUI' directory.
2. Run *npm install*

> 3. Run *node nodeui.js*

Reviewer: Maybe monospace the commands, rather than italics?

Author: Done!
